Daily Tip 80 14/11/2003 12:01 AM

**Using a web browser to view HTML ODS output**

By default SAS will use its internal browser to display HTML ODS output
generated by SAS. You can change this to use either your systems default
browser or a specific browser by using *tools/options/preferences*,
choosing the *results* tab and set *View results using*: to *Preferred
Web Browser*. There are some other interesting parts to this dialog
window, such as letting you choose your default ODS style. Also by
clicking on the *web* tab you can define what the preferred web browser
is.

Of course the other way to view ODS output with a web browser is to
invoke one from within SAS using the ***WBROWSE*** command. The
following code shows how this can be achieved. One advantage is that if
you generate an HTML frame, you can then view the Frame, rather than
just the body.

For more information on the ***WBROWSE*** command see
[http://v8doc.sas.com/sashtml/win/zwbrowse.htm]{.underline}

ods html body=\'c:\\body.html\'

contents=\'c:\\contents.html\'

page=\'c:\\page.html\'

frame=\'c:\\frame.html\' ;

**proc** **sort** data=sashelp.prdsale ;

by country region ;

**proc** **print** data=sashelp.prdsale ;

by country region ;

**run** ;

ods html close ;

dm \"wbrowse \'c:\\frame.html\'\" ;

p.s. Sorry for the delay in delivering tips. Also, I am now available
for work having recently finished a contract.

Example tested under SAS 8.2, Windows XP by Phil Mason

Wood Street Consultants Ltd. [tips@woodstreet.org.uk]{.underline}

[www.woodstreet.org.uk]{.underline}

Instant Messengers ... ICQ:27165944, AOL:philipamason, MSN:
philipandrewmason@hotmail.com, Yahoo: philipandrewmasonb
